Hey there!
You both landed jobs, eh?
Mom and Dad will be proud!
First payday?
What are you going to do with all that money?
Hmm.
Everybody needs it.
Of course, every job has its difficulties
and inconveniences.
But our hard-earned money can give us
the power to buy and do lots of things.
It can help us meet our physical needs
and can buy other things that we might want.
There are a few things you’ll want
to keep in mind about money.
Keep money in its place.
No, we’re not talking
about a physical place like a bank.
Keep your priorities straight.
Be ‘rich with God,’ the Bible says.
Take time to get to know him,
to be his friend.
He’ll help you be content with what you have.
You’ll be happier—whether you have a lot
or a little—
and you’ll make him happy too.
At Proverbs 23:5, the Bible says
that money can “sprout wings like an eagle
and fly off into the sky!”
So it’s important to learn now
how to take care of your money
so that when you need it
it’s there to take care of you!
First, make a plan for your money,
otherwise called a budget.
Make a list of the things you need
and how much each costs.
Good.
Now, add a few things you want
and how much each costs.
Add it all up.
Now, compare that with how much money
you’ll earn each week.
Hmm.
Are these things so important
that you need to spend
most, or all, of your money on them?
You might need to put off some of those wants
because it’s also good to save some money.
You know, put money away
for a time when you’ll need it.
At Ecclesiastes 9:11,
the Bible says “time and unexpected events”
can overtake any of us.
It’s smart to have something set aside
for yourself just in case you need it
or to help someone else.
Or you may need something
that costs more than you can earn
in a week
or a month
—even a year.
So each week, save some money so that
—wait.
What?
You don’t want to wait?
Oh, credit.
Well, you could do that.
But credit carries a cost called interest,
and it can really add up.
When you lose track of the things
you buy on credit,
you can easily end up paying much more
for everything you buy.
Sometimes it can take years
and years
and years to pay off credit-card debt.
So have a plan for your money,
stay within your budget,
save for the unexpected,
and avoid unnecessary debt
so you can spend more time
getting to know God.
Now that’s how to manage your money!